Jv/ingestion examples (#14)
questdb/documentation: reference/api/ilp/overview.md

For more guidance in how to tune QuestDB, see
[capacity planning](/docs/deployment/capacity-planning/).

## Transport selection

The ILP protocol in QuestDB supports the following transport options:

- HTTP (default port 9000)
- TCP (default port 9009)

On QuestDB Enterprise HTTPS and TCPS are also available.

The HTTP(s) transport is recommended for most use cases. It provides feedback on
errors, automatically retries failed requests, and is easier to configure. The
TCP(s) transport is kept for compatibility with older QuestDB versions. It has
limited error feedback, no automatic retries, and requires manual handling of

> connection failures. However, while HTTP is recommended, TCP has a lower
> overhead than HTTP and may be useful in high-throughput scenarios in
> high-latency networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection failures. However, while HTTP is recommended, TCP has slightly lower
overhead than HTTP and may be useful in high-throughput scenarios in
high-latency networks.
```

  milliseconds.
  - Defaults to 10 seconds.
  - Not all errors are retriable.
- **token** (SENSITIVE): Bearer token for HTTP Token authentication.
  - Open source HTTP users are unable to generate tokens. For TCP token auth,
    see the below section.
- **username**: Username for HTTP Basic Authentication.

> #### TCP Parameters
> 
> _See the [Authentication](/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/#authentication) section below for configuration._
> 
> :::note
> 
> These parameters are only useful when using ILP over TCP with authentication
> enabled. Most users should use ILP over HTTP. These parameters are listed for
> completeness and for users who have specific requirements.
> 
> :::
> 
> _See the [Authentication](/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/#authentication) section below for configuration._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### TCP Parameters

:::note

These parameters are only useful when using ILP over TCP with authentication
enabled. Most users should use ILP over HTTP. These parameters are listed for
completeness and for users who have specific requirements.

:::

_See the [Authentication](/docs/reference/api/ilp/overview/#authentication) section below for configuration._
```

  - This is not a periodic timer - it will only be checked on the next row
    creation.

- **auto_flush_rows**: Auto-flushing is triggered above this row count.

  - Defaults to `75,000` for HTTP, and `600` for TCP.
  - If set, this implies “auto_flush=on”.

#### Buffer configuration

- **init_buf_size**: Set the initial (but growable) size of the buffer in bytes.
  - Defaults to `64 KiB`.
- **max_buf_size**: Sets the growth limit of the buffer in bytes.
  - Defaults to `100 MiB`.
  - Clients will error if this is exceeded.
- **max_name_len**: The maximum alloable number of UTF-8 bytes in the table or
  column names.
  - Defaults to `127`.
  - Related to length limits for filenames on the user's host OS.

#### TLS configuration

> _QuestDB Enterprise Only._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_QuestDB Enterprise only._
```

  `line.auto.create.new.tables`configuration parameters to false.

If you're using QuestDB Enterprise, you must grant further permissions to the
authenticated user:

```sql
CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT ingest_user; -- creates a service account to be used by a client
GRANT ilp, create table TO ingest_user; -- grants permissions to ingest data and create tables
GRANT add column, insert ON all tables TO ingest_user; -- grants permissions to add columns and insert data to all tables
--  OR
GRANT add column, insert ON table1, table2 TO ingest_user; -- grants permissions to add columns and insert data to specific tables
```

Read more setup details in the
[Enterprise quickstart](/docs/guides/enterprise-quick-start/#4-ingest-data-influxdb-line-protocol)
and the [role-based access control](/docs/operations/rbac/) guides.

## Timestamp Column Name

QuestDB's underlying ILP protocol sends timestamps to QuestDB without a name.

If your table has been created beforehand, the designated timestamp will be correctly
assigned based on the payload sent bt the client. But if your table does not
exist, it will be automatically created and the timestamp column will be named

> `timestamp`. To use a custom name, say `my_ts`, pre-create the table with the desired
> timestamp column name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`timestamp`. To use a custom name, say `my_ts`, pre-create the table with the desired
timestamp column name.
```

> To address this, issue a `CREATE TABLE` statement to create the table in advance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, issue a `CREATE TABLE` statement to create the table in advance:
```
